What we see now is a seasonality plot.
Again, all time series plots, the
vertical axis is our target variable,
the horizontal axis
shows our seasonality.
For example, with monthly data,
all the monthly values are plotted in
chronological order with each
month on the horizontal axis.
The numbers one through ten represent
the ten years of data that we have seen
in the time series.
When looking at this plot with the Bates
Hotel time series, we can tell our
results during winter and
summer months are significantly higher.
These findings are not surprising,
considering most people go to the hotel
during these months to take
advantage of the skiing and hiking.
Since this pattern repeats each
year at the same time intervals,
we can safely say that our time
series contains seasonality.
Another noticeable characteristic of the
Bates Hotel booking seasonality plot,
is that the magnitude of bookings
increases year after year.
Keep this in mind,
as it will be important for
our later lessons in
predictive modeling.